### DCG Town Hall
#### Meeting held on DEFCON Discord 
#### 29 May 2025 1600 Pacific time

*Adam*

We're going to go through for the agenda, we're going to go through just quick introductions. I know that there's a lot of people asking who we are, and so we're going to go through some introductions. We're going to go through the background of the DEFCON group's team and then the minimum requirements and core values. We're going to address some obstacles that we acknowledge that we're fighting as well, and planned improvements. And hopefully discuss other planned improvements during the discussion period. And probably what everyone's here for these two following things: Changes to the naming convention and point of contact verification we're going to go into those, going to go into the details there, and then we're going to open it up for discussions and questions.

So first off like I said I am Adam915 I am the department lead. Alethe (Denis) is here with us. She is my second. We also have Jason Street. Everyone should know Jason he's been the voice of our program for years global ambassador globetrotter all over the place but Jason is here with us today as well. We have Deviled Egg I don't believe she is here, she had other commitments, but she serves as our volunteer coordinator. In terms of volunteers for helping us, and Polo Master is on well with technical operations. Of course our reporting structure, we report to the Dark Tangent, our fearless leader, and then we also work with Nikita hand in hand. And then Sleestak is our primary liaison on the DEFCON staff. In terms of the next slide, the DEFCON Groups, and I'm putting this as a department, the DC board label is a misnomer. We are not a board. I honestly don't know where the board label originated from. But, we are not a board. We function like any other DEFCON department. Our positions are Goon positions. In terms of our job we do meet weekly outside of DEFCON. I know a lot of groups you know only concentrated around con but we do meet around the year. We're tasked by DEFCON to organize support and foster growth of DCG programs. And that's what we are trying to do. Two main things, we need to ensure that every DCG out there is meeting the minimum requirements. We're going to talk about that in just a second. And then also we're here to protect the DEFCON brand, and the DCG brands, and that's our community. Alethe do you want to take this one?

*Alethe Denis*

Absolutely. So I want to share with all of you our core values. These are the things that we believe are central to DEFCON groups. And first and foremost is our community and our autonomy. Local groups that are self-organized and lead with flexibility. This is something that's important to us. Our groups have existed for over a couple of decades and though Adam and myself and the current members of the department are new to the organization relatively speaking. This is something that's important to us, and the reason why we got involved with this department in the first place, is to keep these values central to our department and fostering the growth of DEFCON groups going forward. The guidelines that we recently shared don't impact groups abilities to organize locally, to self-organize, to remain flexible in the way that they are led and how they organize events and meetups in the future. And, secondary, we want to continue to emphasize inclusivity and accessibility. DEFCON groups should always be open to all regardless of skill level background or any other descriptors. Hacker ethics and responsible exploration, curiosity with respect, legality, and purpose are also central core values to DEFCON groups. Transparency and trust is something else that is very important to us, and we acknowledge that we're hearing your feedback. We understand that you feel that we may have not exemplified this over the last couple of years, especially. And, that clear communication is important. And, that is one of the reasons why we have reached out to DEFCON groups around the world within the last couple of years to do a pulse tech, recently. As a point of contact you may have received an e-mail from us to verify whether or not you're still active. This was in an effort to restart communication between our team and DEFCON groups that were still active. We also do not want to collect tons of data. Minimal data collection is something else that is very important to us. And so we'll get into some of the things that are being collected in more detail a bit later. But, trust and transparency is also something that is a core value of ours and we believe that that extends to DEFCON groups as well, at the local level. And, we're making commitments to be more transparent going forward as a department. But, from our perspective, the transparency, not only does it go both ways but it's something that I want to emphasize our lack of being out there and being very public? I know that I'm one of the members who is more public, but our lack of being public is not to be secretive more to prevent it from looking like we're out there trying to get attention or recognition for the work that we do. Our group and department is more about giving back to the community and supporting the needs of the community rather than seeking validation or accolades for the work that we do. And, finally, on the core values, collaboration over gatekeeping, (and) knowledge sharing and mutual support over exclusion. This is something that personally in my own DEFCON group myself and Pole Master are point of contacts for local DEFCON groups this is something that's extremely important to us and it's important to each of the members of our department as well. This idea that we want to spread DEFCON at a local level and make it accessible to those who are not able to attend the annual conference in Vegas and include and bring in folks in the emerging workforce, as well as those who are perhaps transitioning into this space from other areas. And Adam I’ll hand it back to you.

*Adam*

OK thank you. So the next thing next slide I'll go over is just the minimum requirements. These are the things that when we're fielding requests for new groups, when we're fielding complaints, these are things they look at right? These are what we expect the DEFCON groups out there to adhere to. 

I know there's some discussion in the chat earlier, yes I did say from day one, but it has been from the day I've taken over or when I've been involved. The DEFCON code of conduct is always applied since I've been involved with DEFCON groups. And, in my discussions with Jason and DT, that is what I've been told. So, since the code of conduct was introduced, it applies to DEFCON groups as well as DEFCON. So, the code of conduct is not just at CON, at summer camp, it applies to DEFCON groups as well. So that is one thing that we expect.  And, we expect that as a community. We want to be good people. We don't want bad apples in our bunch. So I don't think that's that much to ask for a group to adhere to the code of conduct. 

Second thing here is (for groups to) maintain a verified point of contact that lives in the area that you're representing. So one of the things that when we first started taking over the department is that, well, one, I'll just admit, I'll talk about this in the next slide too, is that we had pretty much, you can say we didn't have any records. The previous records were minimal, and so there were a lot of people that had moved on, that were inactive, you name it. We we were not able to contact them. Of course makes our job difficult, if we can't contact the POC, if we can't hunt them down, how do we do our job? So one of the things that we felt in terms of going forward making DCG better making it where we can help better and provide more support is that we have to have a verified point of contact. And, then one of the other things that adds on to that that lives in the area they're representing. We've had several instances of people that have complained that basically - everyone knows what domain squatting is right? Well people are sitting on these names of these groups. They no longer live in the area they're representing. People are trying to take over the groups. But the point of contact that's there won't let it go. And so, we don't think that's what the intent of DEFCON groups is. We think that if you move out of state and you're still trying to hold on to a group that you started, you know, five years ago, and for the benefit of your company, or personal benefit, that's not right. It belongs to the community. So, every group, it belongs to the community. It doesn't belong to any said person or point of contact. It belongs to the community. 

This next item, I know that we've had some questions and some concerns about this one, in terms of hold regular in person meetups. And, what we had discussed is that we think that in order to maintain group status and to live up to the intent of DEFCON groups? We want you to meet once a quarter in person. That doesn't mean the entire the entire DCG has to go somewhere and meet in person, but that means that we want the point of contact to organize an in person meet up, that, may be inviting to new people, that people can get out of their house, and come face to face, and collaborate, and work together. 

Now, one of the other things in terms of meetups and meetings we've had lots of confusion in the past we've had lots of people that don't want to be point of contacts, like well I don't I don't know any speakers. I don't know content. I don't know this. I don't know that. I don't have a place to hold my meeting. When we're talking meetups? Let's get this on the record. Virtual meetups are fine. So I know that that's been asked about behind the scenes and the questions that I feel that virtual meetups are absolutely fine. But once a quarter we want you to meet in person. This doesn't have to be formal. It can be hey we are meeting at Taco Tico Friday at 5:00. Come join us for some tacos drinks and discussion. And, so that's what we want. We want people to get involved and engage with with each other. That's the intent of DEFCON groups. And so holding that once a quarter, I believe is fair in terms of asking groups to exist. Maintain existence. 

And then another thing on this too that we've addressed is that you can coexist with other groups. The 2600s, the BSides. It's about community and being involved. We're not competing. And so, you know, if you have other groups going on in that, I know that we have several points of contacts that are points of contacts in these other groups. That's perfectly fine. There's nothing wrong with that. 

The next item in terms of an annual check in with DEFCON groups. Hey, TTL (time to live), are you still alive? One of the things that has happened throughout the couple of decades of existence is that you sign up for a group and then we never hear from you again. Sometimes you know sometimes you need us, sometimes you don't. I know that there's been some comments in terms of that we're nonexistent. Well, one, we're going to we're going to do better at that. But two, if you don't need us, I mean you're operating fine on your own, and so that's that's perfectly acceptable too. We don't we don't wanna overstep. We don't want to try to control your group, other than these minimum requirements. But function on your own as you have, but we want that annual check in saying “Yep I'm still here we're still active we're still good”.

Then the other things? These are really core. Ensure meetings are free and inclusive, free for all to attend, no illegal activities or commercial exploitation. The commercial exploitation comes with the free. And I know that a lot of groups have asked “can I have sponsors?” Certainly, you can. You know DEFCON we we don't want to be known as an ad, or you know a sales pitch, that's not what it's about. But if you have somebody that's wanting to sponsor food drink entertainment etcetera etcetera that is perfectly acceptable. No strings attached though. So if they want to sponsor that, if you want to maybe set something up in the corner or something to recognize hey food and drink or sponsored by XYZ company tonight thank you know thank them for that that's fine, but there cannot be any expectation that I have to listen to a sales pitch, or that I have to give my name or number to attend this etcetera etcetera. So commercial exploitation not going on there. 

And then the brand and media guidelines. This is in terms of making sure that DEFCON Groups is not confused with DEFCON. That's the biggest thing. That's one of the largest things that we fight is that a lot of groups out there, and sometimes it's unintentional, but a lot of groups out there sell themselves as DEFCON insert name here and insert country here. And so far there's been DEFCON and DEFCON China. There is no other DEFCON than that. So that's one of the things that we always have to reach out to a lot of times. If we're reaching out to you, we are reaching out to say, hey you're stepping on the DEFCON brand, it creates brand confusion, it creates confusion in our community. 

“Ohh hey DEFCON’s doing a conference in in you know this country?” 

“No, we're not. It’s a local group.” 

We certainly encourage local meetups. We certainly encourage groups to hold local events. But, it has to be named appropriately, to not cause confusion with DEFCON. 
So talking about this current obstacles, yes we've had communication barriers. Lack of existence of records. I would call this we're trying to reboot DEFCON groups. We are trying to get good records on file, so we can communicate, so we can provide you better service, support whatever you need. And so it's been a struggle in terms of trying to weed out who is still functioning and who is still meeting with the new groups, and the crisscross, and it it's been difficult. At one point we just basically have said we have to just start over with a fresh set of records. We need to verify people, we need to get them on the books, and and start clean. From this point on this is our source of truth. We can't go digging through the five different versions of spreadsheets that are incomplete that you know was handed to us by different DEFCON group leads. It's in such a disarray, we just have to start fresh. And, so you know, the lack of access, we've had issues with being able to move as fast as we want on certain things, but we are working with DC staff. We've made lots of roads of improvement there. I am excited about where we are headed. I hope to have some new things introduced soon. Inactive and unresponsive groups? Again, you know, we've reached out. We've reached out. We don't contact you. Sometimes we just don’t even have an e-mail for some groups. You know, some of them some of them we get lucky and we actually have an NDR bounce back to us but then some of them are just out there and not responsive. And then you know there's also been groups that haven't even been on the list that have popped up and said yeah I've been a group since you know 2013. So, we recognize this. These are obstacles. We are trying to do better. We will do better. And you know, I think that we've talked about holding town hall forums in the past. And all I can say is until today we've talked about it and we haven't actually put that in motion. So, we put it in motion. It's great to see. It looks like there's 87 people in the audience, and all I can tell you is that we're here to listen and help and make things better. So improvements and progress. Again, as I've been saying, better overall communications, quarterly town hall meetings. Riverside has helped us greatly. He's set up a points of contact only channel in Discord. So as we are verifying our new points of contact we are also getting your Discord ID so we can add you to this channel this helps us greatly communicate quicker easier instead of me having to go log into a VPN into a VM to a secure e-mail server that I don't always have access to when I'm traveling. At this point in time I have I have verified contacts now in Discord and my point of contacts that we can have discussions and also fosters discussions and ideas between the points of contact. So there's a way for those points of contact to communicate easier amongst yourselves. I know I'm going to get this in the chat I've been preaching the new website for years. All I can say is that we've been trying to get a new website for years. I think that it's finally coming around. It's close. I still think it's ambitious to say that we'll have a new one before DEFCON, but that is our goal. 

Another thing is that we've been working with Hacker Tracker to get our new data pushed over to that platform so it can be shared there as well. And then something that we've always discussed and never has happened, and I know it's been brought up in some of the chats, is that we’ll work on a speaker resource pool to help groups that do want to have formal presentations and stuff like that, whether in person or virtually. We'll work on a verified pool of speaker resources to help you with. And that not only helps you but it also helps the speakers of our community. There's lots of folks out there that want to present, that want to do research. It's not easy to get up on stage and give that. So it's a good platform to to help promote people as well. So we're looking forward to that. 

*Alethe*

One step back real quick with regards to the website? We understand the frustration because everybody can make a website in a day. However, there are very strict guidelines that are enforced for websites that are connected to DEFCON assets like DEFCON groups for example. And those guidelines make things a little trickier. We're also working with DEFCON staff and the website team. So in producing the content and working with their team there are some other steps in between making a website and getting to done, that make it a little bit more complicated than just spinning up a website in a CMS and getting that posted. So please bear with us. I know that we're all sick of the excuses. And we're trying to be as transparent as possible. But we also can't throw shade at anyone else or throw anyone under the bus. These are the, you know, guidelines that we have to work with and the restrictions that we have to operate within. And while Adam and I are leads in this department we haven't been leads of this department for very long. There have been many people involved in DEFCON groups over the last 20-some odd years, and those people have also tried to make progress and struggled. We're at a point we want to take responsibility for past failure, learn from those lessons, and attempt to navigate through the tricky waters that we have ahead of us. But we also need community support and some grace in order to accomplish those things. 

*Adam*

Thanks Alethe. Two things coming up that we're here to really discuss are changes to the naming convention. So first and foremost going to put this in big bold letters, existing groups are allowed to continue using their current name and identity. When some of these changes hit publicly, people thought that no we were going to be forced to go with a different name. No, we recognize that people have investments into branding. Merch,  tattoos, all sorts of stuff. We don't want to take your identity away, but we do want to come up with a naming convention that will allow us to grow the community, allow us to add new groups, and remove some of those some of those obstacles that we've been facing in terms of you know trying to bring on new groups. So again, just want to reiterate, existing groups are allowed to continue using their parent group name and identity. So why are we changing? It's a direct result of outgrowing the dialing code. International dialing codes? Oh my gosh they are probably one of the biggest headaches that I've dealt with in the last few years. I've tried figuring out an equation for some of the international groups that are applying and every time I think that I have an equation figured out or a system figured out it gets blown to shreds. And so that's one of the frustration and the pain points so we said hey why don't we just come up with a new system? It provides consistency and searchability. It allows more groups to coexist in close proximity. And you know, I responded to one of these questions earlier in the the general chat, but how how does this work and why are we coming up with this? So for instance in very sparsely populated areas, I'm going to take New Mexico for example, they've got 2 area codes that cover the entire state. We've got like 4 groups that want to exist there. And so in the past that's meant DCG 512-1 and -2 and -3 and -4. Or, ABCD. And that just doesn't make any sense. And so with this we are allowing groups to share and so yes they are going to represent that area code but they're going to represent the city Albuquerque, Las Cruces, Santa Fe, etcetera. Again, so that's in sparsely populated areas. And then, conversely, in densely populated areas, we have groups that are competing over one another. That we can allow them now to have groups. There may be groups in the various parts of the city or suburbs or smaller city name give you a group and not restrict you to an area code that will not work for a group. Here is an example I went and looked it up so you know DCG 011617 A. Sorry Brisbane don't wanna pick on you if we've got any representatives in here from from your group but I really think DCG Brisbane is more effective in terms of identification when you're wanting people to find you. Another thing that we've done is we've introduced group types. One of the common complaints that we heard is that the professionals in our industry or our community didn't really necessarily like being having a bunch of collegiate members and vice versa. They have opposite facing ideas of what the group should be and and the content of that. And it got to be to the point to where we had people just saying I'm not going to attend. You know, we had people saying that hey I want to take over this DCG in this town and I reached out to some of the people that I know in the community in that town, and it's like if you do that that's going to turn into just all academic, and no one's gonna lose interest and no one's gonna attend except for the college students. The purpose of DCG is try to be inclusive and reach as many people as possible. And, again we've had this issue as well with some government entities um in terms of military bases etcetera etcetera so we are making some exceptions on that. There will be some additional requirements required for academic and government groups. I'm not very creative, I'm sorry, I saw this on Reddit and people were complaining about the professional name. Hey I agree maybe I'm hoping instead of professional that the community term would be a a better name for that in terms of a group type. I am open to suggestions there. But at this point Community is probably the best thing that we've come up. I get you with professional. So not throwing any shade there. 

And then again new applications. I don't care if it's what group type it is, but new applications will be approved on a case by case basis. A lot of times there is certainly just “I don't like the group in my area and I want to form my own group”. That is not what we want. We want people working together. So when we have requests come in to form a group on top of another, we want to be respectful to that existing group. We want to encourage this new point of contact requesting the group to reach out to the existing group in the area. Can you work together? Can you find a way to coexist and be as one? And then if not you know ultimately our job is to you know make DEFCON groups available. And so if we can't come to consensus we will give out another group, but we do try to protect those existing groups as much as we can. The existing groups are meant to be granular, not regional. We've had lots of people that sense that if I go register a DCG group that is the entire country, that that's going to come with the prestige. No that's not what we're about. We want them to be regional, we want them to be local, we want them to be granular. So we will not create “super groups”. But what we will encourage is the groups that are in proximity to each other. We will encourage “hey work together contact and communicate with one another”. I know a lot of you do. I know there's examples of this out there. But we do encourage that and we do love that idea and that concept of working together and then coming together once a month. Say, “hey we're all gonna come to the center of the city,  we're all gonna meet here or there and have a big group meeting”.  So granular meetings here and there, and you know, maybe area type meetings every once in a while would be an awesome idea. We support that 100%. 

OK I'm going to move on through this quickly so we can get to discussions. Point of contact verification. So first and foremost, I just wanna reiterate first and last name, phone number, e-mail address. Information is used and collected for DEFCON use only. This is internal DEFCON use only. It's not sold. It's not put on the website. This is this is meant for us to have a valid confirmed communication channel with you should we need to reach your group. I'm going to just have to start here. I know that somebody said let's be real. So we're going to be real. DEFCON groups is no longer a party. It's evolved into a community. And that evolution into a community comes with responsibility. And we have to have responsibility for growth in our community, and we have to be responsible for the members in our community. So one of the things that you know people question “well what does DEFCON groups give me?” For a lot of people it gives them automatic perception of being a leader in their industry and they use that to their advantage. They use that to have endorsements and bad faith actors. And so we see this time and time again. We work against it. But it's sometimes we're chasing ghosts. We've had people we've had people that we've disbanded that have come back with a different e-mail on a different name. We've had that happen several times. Like, no, dude, look this is this is you again. Come you know come on give us a little bit of credit here. But, in general, we can't, without some form of additional verification, we cannot stop that from happening. And so yes we closed one group down, he comes back with a different name and a different e-mail, and applies for a group in a neighboring city and then goes out and does the same damn thing. And so you know this just helps us tried to prevent that. And when I say protect the community a lot of people have questioned how are you going to protect the community? You know we can't protect it in its entirety, but we can at least try our best to make efforts to protect it. So again let's be 100% honest yes these changes go to protect the reputation of DEFCON and the DEFCON groups community. And what an action of one has the potential of affecting us all. And that's what we were seeing. We don't want that to happen. I know that one of the questions I saw, I saw someone post, that we see this as a liability for you guys in terms of being a group. And that's why I asked. I find a little bit of irony there because that is what we are seeing too. We may be coming at it from two different perspectives, but we were for certain trying to reduce any liability. Yes, we're protecting DEFCON. But we're protecting your group as well. If you as a DEFCON group out there are part of the DEFCON brand, we're protecting all of us. That is our intent. We're not doing this to punish or control anyone. You know we've read that online. We don't want any control, we don't want any centralization. But you know at the end of the day if you're going to be operating under the DEFCON brand we at least need to know who you are and to know how to be able to communicate with you. And so again we're not trying to punish or control anyone and honestly, we don't see how this affects how any groups are currently operating. We're not asking anyone to operate any differently except for be connected with us and say hey I'm here. I'm here if you need me, and at the same time we're here if you need us. And final point on this is that this change was not made as a result of the recent lawsuit. Sure, you can probably connect some dots there if you want to, but this was this this was not a result of that lawsuit. 

Things that we've learned as we've been in this position? Reports of fake DEFCON conferences, and then this is probably the most important thing out of all, and this is the driving force behind this, but reports of serious misconduct. And I'm talking serious misconduct in terms of it makes code of conduct violations look like a game of pattycake. And so again I reflect back to this role of credibility and people potentially using the brand that that you're a part of for their for their own personal and ugly purposes. And so this was not isolated to any one group. We've had I don't know how many reports of it throughout the entire globe, and so that's when we put our foot down and said we've got to do something. So it is not acceptable. Or, we ask ourselves, is it acceptable to not know the identity of a point of contact in charge of a group representing DEFCON? 

I don't wanna seem cliche when I say this but I have been part of the hacker community for I believe 15 years now. I understand our roots, and I understand where we came from. We've discussed and thrown around all sorts of different options and ultimately these were the things that that worked. We received feedback from current point of contacts and ultimately once we arrived at the decision to make these changes they were brought to the DC staff and approved by DT. Again, I don't want to sound cliché, it was a difficult choice. But considering that this is our community and something that we're all a part of I think our team chose “human first”. When it came to when it came to some of these issues “human first” and “hacker second”. We're still hackers, but we're humans at heart, and we can't let some of the things that going on continue. 

So, I've tried to rush through that as quickly as possible. Thank you for listening to that and we will turn this over to start fielding some questions, here.

*Moderator*

All right so I have a couple questions for me that I've noted from the chat. I think the question that's probably most relevant I'll start with this one first how do you protect the point of contact information? 

*Adam*

Correct so that is going into I think we're using in in terms of reasonable protection right this isn't Fort Knox this isn't credit card data this is information that um you know quite honestly we give more information when we order Grubhub than what we're collecting. But we do realize that this is you know your information and we are cognizant of that. We will work as hard as we can to protect that and so right now it's being filled in a spreadsheet that is password protected and stored on DEFCON resources. 

*Moderator*

Yeah the second question. I'm going to paraphrase this a little bit just to make it a little bit more yeah I'm gonna paraphrase. So how do you know that the person that you're verifying is the person that you're verifying? So if I come to you to verify that I'm a POC and I give you the name Bob McKenzie how do you know that I am Bob McKenzie?

*Alethe*

So this is something that we struggled with for I'm not exaggerating years so I've been a member of this department since just over 2 years ago but only recently one of the leads. And we talked about how we would verify the identity of the people who were taking the point of contact position in a group because we’re receiving reports that point of contacts were acting in ways that were not acceptable by Deacon standards based on the code of conduct, and the only way that we could figure to verify somebody's identification was with the government ID. Now we debated this heavily amongst ourselves and we took this point to people in the community that we have known for a long time who've been part of the DEFCON community for a long time, and before discussing it with the Dark Tangent and other members of DEFCON staff and having this approved as a method of verifying point of contacts for DEFCON group leadership. It was heavily debated amongst our team because we wanted to find another way.  

*Adam*

Yeah

*Alethe*

Asking anybody to show us a government ID wasn't something that we were fans of we're trying to be real here and we're trying to be honest. It wasn't something that made us happy but it was the only way that we could figure to verify somebody and their legitimate identification. So that is what we settled on, was a photo government issued photoID to verify their name.

*Adam*

And to this comment right there that was one of the things that we discussed like hackers have never faked an ID before absolutely you realize we realize that right.

*Alethe*

I want to be clear that absolutely no lawyers were involved in any of this decision making process. There were no lawyers involved. None of this had anything to do with any lawsuits whatsoever. These were all decisions that were made by our department with the best interests of our community at heart. As members of this community we genuinely want to help our community and protect the members of it. And there were people coming to us asking for help. Legitimately reporting point of contacts who were behaving badly. There’s no way for me to share with you those details without doxing the victims and sharing more details than anyone here is just like justified to have. But I want you to understand we are trying to be as transparent and open as possible, and we don't appreciate the way that we're being treated, but we are legitimately coming to you with all the reasons that we've tried to do this for the betterment of our community and without any animosity or negative feeling whatsoever. 

*Adam*

In terms of fake ID's – yes, you know if you or somebody goes to (those links to) fake your identity for a DEFCON group? I mean did we expect it to maybe have happened, or do we expect it to maybe happen? It's been discussed, but at the end of the day, in in our hearts and our minds, we're at least taking a step to try to prevent the things that we were seeing, and to try to prevent those from happening. Are we going to be 100% successful in doing that? No. But can we be 80% successful? I think we can, or more. But we're doing our due diligence in terms of taking those steps to correct something that we see as bad.

*Jason Street*

Can I make a statement real quick? 

OK I I've seen a lot of comments and you know it just reminded me the whole second rule of the Internet, don't read the comments and I want to say a couple things that are that really hit me. One is that I hear a lot of talk about brand. A lot of talk about how much DEFCON is getting something out of these DEFCON groups. How much money has DEFCON asked for DEFCON group to give? Or contribute? Exactly what is the commercial aspect of DEFCON? I've not seen one. I was asked to be part of the DEFCON groups for 10 years ago by DT. I started out global. I spent thousands of dollars going through Southeast Asia because there was not enough representation at DEFCON groups or for hacker groups in that area. It's like, and I've done that, where most of the conferences. DEFCON I know has totally given thousands of dollars worth of merchandise for me to give out to DEFCON groups to send into packs, not asking for anything money. It's like DEFCON gets a lot of hackers every year before DEFCON groups had started there was people attending DEFCON. DEFCON group is a community. I've gone to different cities and I've had people say well we've got a group here and my response is that is awesome. That's what is important, is to have a group. I'm not trying to proselytize. I'm not trying to like say you need a DEFCON group. What you need is hackers need to have a human connection to know that they they're not alone. They need to know that there's others out there that are like them. That's what DEFCON groups is trying to provide. I've seen kids eyes light up in Marrakesh when I explained to them how they could start a DEFCON group there that they weren't alone that they were part of the global community they didn't even know about. It's like when I've talked to people about those things and helped them to start that. It's like that's what it is. Someone said that DEFCON is not a community, it's the hacker community? DEFCON started my journey into the hacking community. It gave me a family that I didn't know existed. It's like I didn't have a place where I felt that I belonged until I ran into DEFCON and I met people that were like me and that believed in the things that I believed in and wanted to help me be part of that community. It's like that's what DEFCON started out for me. It's growing now and we look at this like it's like ohh we're we're being more corporate or we're being more – No! We're trying to be more responsible for the people that have been hurt and we're being more responsible for the people that are looking to us for leadership on trying to say this is a place where I'm not going to be taken advantage of. This is a place that is not trying to profit off of me. This is a place that's not trying to do things like that. This is a place where I can meet other hackers like me. And learn from them and spitball with them. If you've got another a city sec group – NYSEC is another group in New York City, and I love going to that meet up every time. I go whenever I can when I'm in New York. There's 2600 groups all over the world. It's like I've attended them and it's like I encouraged them. It's not a competition. We're not trying to make money off of this. This is the only thing that we're doing and we're donating all this time is so the communities out there and the people out there have a place to realize that they're part of something and they're not alone that they have other hackers that believe like them and think like them and want to foster that kind of community. It's like it's not about I'm not trying to protect the brand I'm trying to protect the people that go to this conference and go to the these groups who are trying to feel like this is what it's about. But there's been no marketing toward DEFCON about you know publicizing or marketing off of DEFCON groups. There's no talk I've never heard once someone talk about the brand effect or the marketing impact or the money impact. No one from DEFCON has ever questioned my request to bring gear and to bring SWAG (stuff we all get) from DEFCON at their cost and to freely give it out to groups all over the world. Not just in America. Everywhere. I've given out DEFCON group SWAG gift bags and stuff to Brazil, to Russia, to Paris, to China, to Singapore, all over South Africa. I have gone on every continent I've been on we have given out freely without reservation without any kind of strings attached without any kind of publicity or like ohh you you need to like now Rep DEFCON? It's just the foster the community.

*Moderator*

Alright I'm gonna move on to the next question if you guys don't mind do you have anything else to add Adam or Jason? 

*Adam*

Nope 

*Moderator*

I don't think it's necessarily a question but it is a statement. It took them months to get any feedback when forming their group. So there's this feeling that you can't acknowledge that you've demonstrated communication issues in the past. You've been saying a lot of “we're going to get better” but it doesn't sound like you've taken accountability for the issues that that we've had in the past, and I just wanted to see if you want to take a moment to address that.

Yep. I don't see how we haven't taken accountability for that. The majority of this call, or there's been lots of parts with this call, that we have taken accountability -  

*Moderator*

Look, I think really when it comes down to is that yeah we have had a lot of problems in the past. DCG has been non communicative. I personally, like as someone who's ran vendors and other areas of DEFCON, I personally been frustrated with some of the communication with DEFCON groups. But, Adam and Alethe, this is this is their first and second year running DEFCON groups. We actually brought them in to try to help address some of these issues. And I mean that's a lot of what you're seeing, as part of like writing down our values, and making sure that all of that is out there. I think absolutely DEFCON groups had communication problems. That is 100% true. But we have full faith in Adam and Elise to kind of correct that ship. I think that's that that's kind of what I think is probably representative of our feelings on that. Hopefully that resonates well some of the people who felt like we weren't taking that accountability.

*Adam*

Well, Kevin, I'm gonna tell you right now if we didn't care or if we weren't taking accountability or trying to make things better we wouldn't be here right now. And it's not just Alethe and myself. It's Jason, it's Polo Master, it’s Deviled Egg. We're here as a team. One of the biggest things that I've had help from, from Kevin, as well, in terms of the staff we've become like I feel that for many years we've sort of operated on our own. It's like hey you guys are out there doing your own thing. OK but as of as of the last couple of years Nikita and Darrington and Polybius and Kevin have made an effort to include us, and that has been greatly beneficial for us because now we feel that we have some avenues to get those answers, to get those problems taken care of. And that's what we're trying, that's what we're trying to do. No excuses, uh, yes I completely agree with your frustrations. I hear you. I'm not I'm not overlooking those or minimizing those but we're here. To try to do that (to get problems taken care of). And yes I told you at DEFCON 31 that we didn't have access to the website. We don't even have a website right now. It was taken down and transferred into the forums which are absolutely hard to navigate and hard to find anything. But we have had some discussions. So part of part of some talk in the community, and part of the waves that you guys been making have actually helped, and you know it's like we are on track, like I said hopefully, I'm keeping my fingers crossed, to have a website launched before DEFCON this year. No promises, right, and we're trying to go ahead. 

*Speaker A*

I'd like to thank you all at the start for the opportunity to speak in regards to this entire situation. I know it's been quite difficult for probably everybody. As somebody that has dealt with DEFCON internals, I I know it's got to be quite difficult. But I do want to bring up grave concerns in regard to that the steps that you all have made in this community. I think a good idea if possible would be to make an affirmative statement, just to give you all advice, that that that none of you are making any money in regards to DEFCON (you’re not employees, you're volunteers). For you all’s sake, it would be a good affirmative statement to make. 

*Adam*

(unintelligible) Just for transparency, I am a paid employee

*Speaker A*

I feel like I've been running an organization for many years without the input of DEFCON groups. I feel like I've cultivated a community and an entire small group through years and years of work. I run an entire BSides conference in regards to that. And then a couple of weeks ago I get this random ping, that DEFCON groups wants my ID. Just look at the situation from my perspective. It makes me gravely concerned especially looking at the legal background of what DEFCON has been dealing with the (Chris) Hadnagy lawsuit and everything else. I understand that it does not directly involve DEFCON groups but as a potential point of contact for the organization I have a lot of concerns with giving up my docs and the ask to do that. I feel like it's just so antithetical to our culture as a whole. When I first got, you know, access to this channel, I looked through the whole thing, and I would like to apologize first and foremost because I feel like there are certain people throughout the situation that are acting in bad faith that are being extremely disrespectful in their conversations and I really do apologize, to that. But at the same time I feel like that DEFCON is taking advantage of me. I have an organization that I've spent years cultivating and a for profit organization all of a sudden decided to show up and apply rules to how I - try to apply rules I might add - to how I am, you know, running my group, after I had emailed for years and years and years and years trying to get some support. I just don't feel like the liability involved, and I know I bring that up, and Jason he rightfully brought that in his explanation. When I bring up the idea of a liability, right, like in my conversation here, I feel like you all are being exploited. If you are truthfully working for DEFCON to cultivate this community without pay, without money, I understand why you have been so hard to reach. But if you're working for this organization, with pay, the response that I've received from my community even dealing with bad organizations is an absolute embarrassment on the name of DEFCON. And the idea, the rhetoric, that I continuously see and the DEFCON DCG group is that there's this DEFCON community. I want to make it extremely clear, there is no DEFCON community. There's a hacker community, right. And we support you. You do not support us. We provide value to the hacker community, not the DEFCON community, right. DEFCON is a corporation. Hackers are a community of people that love each other and have consistent ideals. And that is the rhetoric that consistently bothers me coming from the idea that that the people on this board are working under the intention for free? No I’m sorry that that must not be the case, or you all are being misled. If this organization DEFCON groups wants to move forward this board must be dismantled and free, fair, and open elections in regards to how we move forward with DEFCON groups must be held. Thank you for your time. 

*Adam*

OK so in terms of the main question one of the main questions there, are we paid? Technically in terms of legal terms goons are not volunteers but the only pay that I have ever received from DEFCON is in the form of and just recently after gooning for over 10 years I believe I've gotten one free hotel room out of it and some food tokens and a badge. So that is our pay is a goon badge, a hotel room to stay at while we're at con, in terms of we get one night per every night we work, and and food tokens. So that's our pay. And I 100% am in this, look I'm part of the hacker community. The hacker community has provided so much for me, this is my way of giving back. I may not be some super hacker and in the weeds of the technical and finding zero days and everything, but this is my way, this is the way of the members on our board, to give back to the community, to help support them. We are trying to make this better. This was an absolute dumpster fire when it was thrown in our laps, and we were trying to make it right. It doesn't happen overnight, which pains me because I am an impatient person. But there are things that we have to work within and we have to abide by the absolutely slows us down. Now I recognize the fact that you and so many others, I'm not discounting anyone else on this call, but yes there are lots of awesome and great groups out there that are the result of lots of hard work by people just like you, to build up that community, and bring that community together, and that's that that's what makes our community great. You are giving back just like we are trying to do as well. I mean the only way that I can think about this is that, you know, I alluded to it, in that DEFCON is no longer a party in the desert. Yes, it is a for profit entity. We are not trying to make profit off of you, off of anyone's work in the community, but we've evolved. We've evolved as a community, and I cannot sit back as a human being and watch things happen and not take actions. So 100% I'm going to try to do the right thing that any good human being is going to do in this industry. And I would certainly hope that a good human being, as a hacker, as part of the hacker community, that we would be even above that, and make sure that our people are being protected from predators out there. They're trying to take advantage of those people. And so I cannot sit back in good faith and turn a blind eye and look the other way without doing something about that. So yes, we understand that this is a paradigm shift from the hacker ethos and the anonymity and the DCG, you know, area code numbers. But, we've changed, and we have to adapt and protect our people as we change. We understand that there are people that don't like this change or don't agree with this change. We understand that. We respect that. We encourage those other ecosystems, it's not all about DEFCON groups it's about the community, so if there is another ecosystem that serves members out there better, we're not against that. The B sides, I mean all these other groups that happen during summer camp. They're there for a reason and they serve their purpose, and they serve people in different ways that people need. So if that is what people need we 100% encourage that because that makes us better as a community. 

Jason where you want to say something? 

*Jason Street*

I want to apologize it's like I'm not afraid to admit when I was wrong I want it to be 100% stated and understood, 10 years ago when I was asked to be the lead for DEFCON groups, I am not an organized person. I am not good with business. I'm not good with professionalism.  I have executive dysfunction, I'm on the spectrum. I thought it sounded cool to be an advisory board. Because I needed people to help me with the organization part of it. I was tasked to be like you're the guy to help with defconners, and I'm like I don't know what I'm doing. I need someone more adultier than me to do the adulting thing. That's, like, one of the first things I did as when I was asked to lead the DEFCON groups was to find someone to be the title that I created, the DEFCON group's global coordinator, which was basically the person who could make the decision so I wouldn't feel, to be able to, I couldn't do it. It's like I could come up, I'm good with coming up with ideas. I'm good with helping with stuff, but I am not good with making any of it happen. It's like Advisory Board was not made to sound, because it was a corporate entity, or it was not considered, or thought about. It was, I thought, I came up with it. Because I thought, oh well, I need to call it something. And, you know, when you get the people together, and it sounds official it's like, you know, a board. Because, like, that's in my mind, that's what I thought. I'm the one that screwed that up and made that happen. It's like it's never been, every person on this Advisory Board is a hacker, is a volunteer, who's committed to helping this community. And I understand when we say the hacker community is the thing, and it's like, and DEFCON is just part of that tribe, like DEFCON is just one event, that happens in the desert. And I've said that before, it's like we're the tent pole that comes up there, it's like, and we meet, and there's all these other tribes that meet under that tent pole. You've got the Wi-Fi hackers, and the lock picking hackers, and the hardware hackers, the social engineering hackers, and you've got the tamper evident hackers, and you've got all these different hacking prides that meet up in this once a year. But it's all together, we're all hackers, and we're all part of that community, and we spread that out locally. It's like when I talk about advertising and when people are saying like we're advertising for DEFCON, it’s like, I don't, that's not what I see as the goal for DEFCON groups. It doesn't matter about the label. It's about the community. It's about finding people in your community. So I am sorry that I called it a board. I didn't know better. I didn't know this was going to happen. I didn't know I was still going to be around 10 years later to see all the stuff that was going on and to see it grow like this. It's like, I am thankful every day for Adam 915 and Alethe and all the other people that actually took up the slack and actually started with them. You want to know why the first five years of like you know ten years ago, but 10 through 5 years ago, was so hard to get people contact? Because I didn't have that many people, and I didn't know what to do, and how to get it all streamlined. It's like it was a mess. Blame me for that, as well, it's like that's my fault. It's like I should have done a better job. It's like one of the best decisions I made was to give it to someone that was doing it. It's like I am 100% in agreement with every person's frustration and disappointment when it comes to how slow responses have come from these group of volunteers and it's like but I am telling you that these last two years has been people dedicated wholly on trying to make it better, to streamline it, to make it better. Not to make it more profitable. Not to make it more marketable. To make it better for the community, to make it better for the groups, so there is a better and faster response. That's what we're trying. So I want to just make sure that we understand that I'm sorry. It's like, I'm sorry that we had the connotations that it was a corporate or it was a board, or it was anything like anything but a just a regular department, like all the other goon departments. Just like the SOC goons. Just like the network goons. Just like all the other goons, the info booth goons, the speaker ops goons, all the other quartermaster goons, all the other important goons that make DEFCON work. And that's all I can say, I'm sorry. 

*Adam*

Just one quick add on here is that in terms of this, this town hall, is the first step to start eliciting feedback from the community. We hear you, we're going to do that, and my word to be better from here. 

*Moderator*

I'm gonna go ahead and rapid-fire some questions, so I believe there was like one or two people who wanted to come up and speak. We can do that. We are going to limit the time to like one or two minutes, same thing with the answers. We're going to try to get through as much as we can. 

So one question was what does a legal name solve that a verified e-mail or mobile number can't? 

I don't I don't know if you guys contemplated that during your during your discussion about legal names and IDs. I think like I can get a new e-mail address and a mobile number pretty easily like I don't know I have a couple apps on my phone that can do that, so I can't get a legal name that easy. 

*Adam*

Yeah 

*Moderator*

I think the ID is best effort.

Next question. Adam mentioned the continuous reports of CoC violations and worse and nefarious actions continuously being brought to our attention. The transparency report only mentioned 2 DCG enforcement actions that I recall. Are you getting flooded with false reports, or are enforcement actions not being published?

*Adam*

Yeah, that's a good question. So there's a lot of things that we don't have records of who this person is so it's hard to go start tracking those down. The transparency report? Like I said we've sort of been off in our own island for several years, and now we've been brought into other groups. We are actively working with the hotline and SOC team to be part of the transparency report. We don't view ourselves, the role of DEFCON groups is not to enforce any code of conduct violation actions. It is our duty to vet them, to ensure that it's not something just absolutely bogus, like I'm not going to I'm not going to send over a complaint of somebody squabbling over a town name or whatever DCG name, but if it's a serious violation we're in works to have the SOC goons and the hotline goons handle that. That's not our role, that's their role. And then they investigate, they look into that, and ultimately any action out of that is DT's decision. 

*Alethe*

Something else that we're talking about doing is having a mini DEFCON groups type transparency report and sharing that information with the community at DEFCON and during closing ceremonies. If that's something that sounds good to you all let us know, um, you know, how many incidents we've had, what types of incidents have been reported, what types of activities. We're handling the tasks that we process on an annual basis. We work 365 days a year in this department not just for con but we also host the community space, and have been extremely grateful to have square footage at DEFCON the last two DEFCONs, and we're bringing the community back this year in room 237, and I'm myself and Polo Master and other members of the department are investing our personal money in bringing new equipment and new things and activities to engage the community in that community space. This is something that we're very passionate about and we want to help give everyone visibility into the work that we do, if that's something you want to hear about, so if a transparency report and getting up on stage at closing ceremonies to tell you what it is we actually do, would be something that you're interested in, please let us know.

*Moderator*

Alright awesome, there was another question, uh I think it might have been answered in chat. I don't know exactly what it means. What category of issues does the department see coming up in local groups that shouldn't be handled by LE and can be handled/assisted remotely.

I don't know what LE is.

*Alethe*

LE is law enforcement. So there are there are various complaints about how groups are managed, who's in charge of a group, what members or point of contacts are doing in groups that are unacceptable by the other members standards, some of those things are just CoC violations, or in bad taste. Those things do not qualify as items that should be reported to law enforcement. For example if a point of contact is extorting the members of their group or money for membership to the DEFCON group, which is something that has been reported to us, that is not something that we would report to law enforcement, for example. But if somebody in a DEFCON group is doing something that breaks a local law then of course that is something that should be reported to law enforcement but we have trouble doing that if we can't identify the individual who is committing that crime, to put it bluntly. So that is one of the reasons for identification and verification of point of contact so that we have somebody that we can contact that could potentially help us to identify the member of the group that has committed the crime and help us to report that person to law enforcement. And there are occasions where, you know, a law enforcement case would be opened and law enforcement would handle it, but then in tandem, that will be reported to DEFCON hotline team who will investigate it and decide whether that is something that needs to be handled on the DEFCON side. If you committed a crime you can't be a DEFCON point of contact anymore. And so it would be handled on both sides of the fence basically.

*Moderator*

Alright awesome, well that was all of the questions that I was able to catch in the chat. Where will the slide deck be available for everybody? 

*Alethe*

I also do use my real name. It's on my LinkedIn. I'm not hiding. All of the people who are a member of this department have DCG in front of their handles. We're here Discord, you can find us on LinkedIn

*Moderator*

What resources are there for DEFCON groups and what benefits are provided by DCG? I guess if you have some that are planned you can talk about those it seems like a road map is something that people would be very interested in having. 

*Adam*

And this is this is where we want to hear your input. We want we want to hear input of what the benefits are. I mean other than legitimacy of being part of DEFCON. We know that sure, that's there, a lot of people take advantage of that. It lends credibility. We want to hear- 

*Jason Street*

I love what Dev Room said. I'm totally 100%, and I think we can do that. When he talks about help sourcing speakers, advertising events. I've tried to retweet whenever I see a DEFCON group meeting showing up. I think we should have an actual organized thing where it's like, where there is an actual place that we can submit when you've got a DEFCON group announcement that you want to go out onto social media that we should be able to contact someone from the DEFCON groups channel that they can then blast that to the social media for the DEFCON groups social media handles, and help amplify those messages. It's like, I think those are both very good ideas, and I think that those are very attainable, very, I can't say quickly, because once again, I can talk, but it's like it's going to take others to do the work, but I do hear you Dev Room on that. I think we should have a resource speakers. I've had several DEFCON groups come to me over the years who've asked me to speak virtually or in person at their DEFCON groups. I have never said no and I'm sure Casey and Alethe and like several other members are willing to do that. I think we can get a lot more speakers that are willing to be available and make themselves available to the DEFCON groups. But also I want to make sure that we understand I think it's a wonderful opportunity for the local hackers at these DEFCON group meetings to give a talk because they have every one of those that attend those meetings have a talk to give they have something they can share with the community, with themselves, with another conference, and I think they should start off by giving the talk at their local DEFCON group to start understanding how to give the best presentation, getting feedback from your friends and colleagues and peers locally, and then starts applying to sides and then start applying to other conferences and apply to DEFCON to speak at those conferences. That's one of the biggest key things DEFCON groups should be about is getting people participating and contributing to the community and sharing information and learning how to share that information with others so I think that's one of the key things that we should do. 

*Moderator*

Oh yeah I mean it sounds like uh there's opportunities for a lot of different benefits that come from this. So I know that we're going to be having the DCG POC text channel. If you don't have human plus reach out to Alethe and Adam, they can get you that human plus code so you guys can get into the POC only text channel. 

*Alethe*

If you're here you already have that code. To gain access to the DCG POC channel, you'll need to complete the verification process for POC. And you can reach out to me to schedule that. 

*Moderator*

Alright awesome. Well, I think that that wraps up our time. It's been around an hour and a half, that's going to wrap up our time. Feel free to continue to have a discussion. We'll try to be around to answer those questions for as long as we can. Thanks everybody, thank you Alethe, Adam, Jason, Polly like thank you guys for helping out and thanks for everyone in chat for you know giving that feedback and helping DCG become better and become what you guys wanted to be, as well as you know what we can make it.

*Alethe*

Thanks everyone, thanks to the goons who helped mod this. We appreciate the community for showing up and for listening and for giving us your feedback as well. Genuinely, thank you. 
